# Airline-Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis
My first ever data science project: sentiment analysis of airlines' twitter tags

Sentiment Analysis is a branch of Natural Language Processing (NLP) that allows us to determine algorithmically whether a statement or document is “positive” or “negative”. Sentiment analysis is a technology of increasing importance in modern society as it allows individuals and organizations to detect trends in public opinion by analyzing social media content. As the airline industry becomes increasingly competitive, airline companies are always trying their best to satisfy customer experience. Through sentiment analysis, these companies can obtain information on customers’ overall satisfaction and adopt business strategies to address aspects with low satisfaction. The purpose of this assignment is to compute the sentiment of text information - in our case, tweets posted in 2017 regarding US airlines - and answer the research question: “What can public opinion on Twitter tell us about the US airlines in 2017?” The goal is to essentially use sentiment analysis on Twitter data to get insight into the people’s opinions on US airlines. Central to sentiment analysis are techniques first developed in text mining. Some of those techniques require a large collection of classified text data often divided into two types of data, a training data set and a testing data set. The training data set is further divided into data used solely for the purpose of building the model and data used for validating the model. The process of building a model is iterative, with the model being successively refined until an acceptable performance is achieved. The model is then used on the testing data in order to calculate its performance characteristics.
